`import pandas as pd`

---

# Easy Questions

---

##### What is a `DataFrame` object?
##### DataFrame Creation: How would you create a DataFrame from a CSV file in Pandas?
##### Once you have loaded a dataset, what command would you use to view the first 5 rows of the DataFrame?
##### How can you check the data types of each column in a DataFrame?
##### If you need to select a single column from a DataFrame, what syntax would you use?
##### ↳ How would you filter rows in a DataFrame where a specific column's value is greater than a certain threshold?
##### ↳ What command would you use to check for missing values in a DataFrame?
##### ↳ How can you fill missing values in a DataFrame with the mean of their respective columns?

Fill missing data
##### ↳ What is the command to group data in a DataFrame and calculate the sum of a specific column for each group?

Data aggregation
##### ↳ Can you demonstrate how to perform an inner join between two DataFrames in Pandas?
##### ↳ How would you sort a DataFrame by the values in a particular column?
##### ↳ How can you set a specific column as the index of a DataFrame?
##### ↳ After setting a new index, how can you reset it back to the default integer index?
##### ↳ How do you select rows based on index labels using the `.loc` accessor?
##### ↳ How do you select rows based on integer index using the `.iloc` accessor?
##### ↳ What is the syntax for selecting DataFrame rows where a certain condition is met?
##### ↳ How do you find the unique values in a DataFrame column?
##### ↳ What command would you use to count the occurrences of each unique value in a DataFrame column?

##### ↳ Given a Pandas Series, how would you replace all values greater than a specified threshold with a fixed value, and then calculate the mean of this modified Series?
##### ↳ How can you quickly generate descriptive statistics for each column in a DataFrame?
##### ↳ If you need to add a new column to a DataFrame based on values from existing columns, what approach would you take?
##### ↳ Finally, how do you export a DataFrame to a CSV file?


<br>

---

##### What is `.json`

JavaScript Object Notation
##### ↳ How is `json` related to `JavaScript`?

Not at all

<br>

---

# Hard Questions

##### How can you return a DataFrame containing all duplicated items? 

[`df.duplicated().drop_duplicates()`](https://leetcode.com/problems/duplicate-emails/?lang=pythondata)

[`~df.isin(...)` and `rename()`](https://leetcode.com/problems/customers-who-never-order/submissions/1113170968?lang=pythondata)

##### Walk through the 3 steps in receiving json data from an API, and saving to a file in human readable `.json`

