`import pandas as pd`

---

# Easy Questions


- axis=0 is columns
- `data.isnull().sum()
is null generates a boolean dataframe of same shape 
sum is an aggregate method which sums across the default axis of columns (axis=1)
rows are axis=0
results in a pandas series (1 dimensional dataframe)

---

##### What is a `DataFrame` object?


##### Seeing the actual data is always important. What are some methods to get a quick sight of your raw data? 

`.head()`
`.info()`


##### DataFrame Creation: How would you create a DataFrame from a CSV file in Pandas?
##### Once you have loaded a dataset, what command would you use to view the first 5 rows of the DataFrame?
##### How can you check the data types of each column in a DataFrame?
##### If you need to select a single column from a DataFrame, what syntax would you use?
##### ↳ How would you filter rows in a DataFrame where a specific column's value is greater than a certain threshold?
##### ↳ What command would you use to check for missing values in a DataFrame?
##### ↳ How can you fill missing values in a DataFrame with the mean of their respective columns?

Fill missing data
##### ↳ What is the command to group data in a DataFrame and calculate the sum of a specific column for each group?

Data aggregation
##### ↳ Can you demonstrate how to perform an inner join between two DataFrames in Pandas?
##### ↳ How would you sort a DataFrame by the values in a particular column?
##### ↳ How can you set a specific column as the index of a DataFrame?
##### ↳ After setting a new index, how can you reset it back to the default integer index?
##### ↳ How do you select rows based on index labels using the `.loc` accessor?
##### ↳ How do you select rows based on integer index using the `.iloc` accessor?
##### ↳ What is the syntax for selecting DataFrame rows where a certain condition is met?
##### ↳ How do you find the unique values in a DataFrame column?
##### ↳ What command would you use to count the occurrences of each unique value in a DataFrame column?

##### ↳ Given a Pandas Series, how would you replace all values greater than a specified threshold with a fixed value, and then calculate the mean of this modified Series?
##### ↳ How can you quickly generate descriptive statistics for each column in a DataFrame?
##### ↳ If you need to add a new column to a DataFrame based on values from existing columns, what approach would you take?
##### ↳ Finally, how do you export a DataFrame to a CSV file?


<br>

---

##### What is `.json`

JavaScript Object Notation
##### ↳ How is `json` related to `JavaScript`?

Not at all

<br>

---


---

##### What are some ways to get some basic information about a dataframe? 

##### How can you see each feature in a dataset along with the number of non-null values, and their datatypes

<br>



---

# Hard Questions

##### How can you return a DataFrame containing all duplicated items? 

[`df.duplicated().drop_duplicates()`](https://leetcode.com/problems/duplicate-emails/?lang=pythondata)

[`~df.isin(...)` and `rename()`](https://leetcode.com/problems/customers-who-never-order/submissions/1113170968?lang=pythondata)

##### Walk through the 3 steps in receiving json data from an API, and saving to a file in human readable `.json`


---


##### I have a list of tickets. Every ticket can have any number of 'tags' (e.g `is_important`). List **three** different ways to represent your tickets in a `pandas` DataFrame.

1. **String of comma-separated values**

If I knew the number of tags per ticket wasn't very large, I would choose to store it as **space** or **comma-separated string**.

```
1. Storing Tags as Comma-Separated Strings:

    ticket_id    tags
    1           "tag1, tag2, tag3"
    2           "tag2, tag3"
    3           "tag1, tag3"
```

2. **Boolean Flags for Each Tag**

If I knew I was going to perform analysis on individual tags, such as aggregating or using it as input into a machine learning model, I would create a separate column, or **boolean flag**, for each tag. 
Then I would indicate the existence of a tag using `True` or `False`. This would result in a very **wide** DataFrame. 

```
2. Boolean Flags for Each Tag:

    ticket_id    tag1    tag2    tag3
    1            True    True    True
    2            False   True    True
    3            True    False   True
```

3. **Multi-hot Encoded Columns**

This is essentially the same idea as **boolean flags**, but instead of `True/False`, use `1` and `0`. This would be useful for analysis and machine learning applications further down the pipeline. 

```
3. Multi-hot Encoded Columns:

    ticket_id    tag1    tag2    tag3
    1            1       1       1
    2            0       1       1
    3            1       0       1
```

4. **Separate rows for each tag**

If the `ticket_id` didn't have to be [[1.1 Databases Crash Course#^10cc0d|uniquely identifying]], then I could simply create a `tag` column and then use a new row for each new tag assigned to a ticket. In this case, each ticket will appear multiple times in the DataFrame, once for each of its tags.

```
4. Separate rows for each tag:

    ticket_id    tag
    1            tag1
    1            tag2
    1            tag3
    2            tag2
    2            tag3
    3            tag1
    3            tag3
```

<br>

---

##### Explain the difference between using `loc` and `iloc` to index a DataFrame.

> [!check] Indexing
> Simply mean searching, splicing, accessing certain rows/columns. 

> [!check] `.iloc`
> **Index based** using `0, 1, 2, 3, ...` like how traditional **lists** are indexed in Python

> [!check] `.loc`
> **Label based** using the worded name of the row/column. E.g the column `'passive_income'`

<br> 

---

##### Given a DataFrame `df`, how would you select the first 5 rows and all columns? 

```python
df.iloc[0:5, : ]
```

<br>
##### ↳ How would you select the first 3 columns and all rows? 


```python
df.iloc[ : ,0:3]
```

<br>

##### ↳ How would you select the first 3 rows and first 5 columns? 


```python
df.iloc[0:5,0:3]
```

<br>

##### ↳ How would you select rows named `'a'` through `'e'`, and all columns? 


```python
df.loc['a':'e', :]
```

<br>

##### ↳ How would you select all columns `'col_1'` to `'col_3'` and all rows? 


```python
df.iloc[ : ,'col_1':'col_3']
```

<br>

##### ↳ How would you select all rows named `'a'` through `'e'` and all columns `'col_1'` to `'col_3'`?


```python
df.iloc['a':'e','col_1':'col_3']
```

<br>


---

