###### How do you mitigate the problem of class imbalance, and why is it important?

> ☞ **Class imbalance** occurs when one class has significantly fewer samples compared to others, especially in classification problems. This can cause the model to be biased towards the majority class, often leading to poor classification of the minority class.


To mitigate this:
1. **Resampling**: This includes oversampling the minority class, undersampling the majority class, or both.
2. **Synthetic Data Generation**: Tools like SMOTE (Synthetic Minority Over-sampling Technique) can be used to create synthetic samples in the minority class.
3. **Weighted Loss Function**: Assign higher weights to the minority class during model training.
4. **Anomaly Detection**: Treat the problem as an anomaly detection task if the minority class can be considered as 'rare events'.
5. **Using Ensemble Methods**: Bagging and boosting can help in reducing the variance caused by imbalances.

<br>


> Data enrichment. Kind of like data linking. Let’s say we have data on a list of company’s. We could enrich this dataset by combining it with a separate dataset with companies and their number of employees. We gain information for free, and thus can produce more powerful models.

---

###### What makes a model actually good? 

What do you mean by ‘powerful model’. 

It actually relates to the statistical definition ‘power’ (link) - the probability that the model is actually correct

Simp. Mew. go

###### How do we measure how good a model is?
#first-princples



<br>

Meaning of semantics. 

<br>

---

##### Evaluation: What is Recall? 
