
###### Q4) **How can we model the time required for the next $k$ events in a Poisson process?**
`Gamma` `Continuous`

*Basically the exponential distribution, except it can tell you how long you need to wait until the $k$th occurrence of an event, instead of only the first.*

$$f(x; \alpha, \beta) = \frac{\beta^\alpha x^{\alpha-1} e^{-x \beta}}{\Gamma(\alpha)}$$

- $\Gamma(k)$ is the gamma function evaluated at $k$, which is an extension of the factorial function to real and complex numbers. For positive integers, $\Gamma(n) = (n-1)!$.
- Note: Like the exponential distribution, you can either input the 'rate' of the event or the 'mean' (waiting time). Again, they are just inverses of each other. 
- The above *pdf* assumes you are using $\theta$ = mean (i.e a plane flies past every 20 minutes $\iff$ 3 planes per minute)

The gamma distribution models the time required for a specified number of events to occur in a Poisson process. Its parameters are:
- **Shape** parameter $k$
- **Scale** parameter $\theta$ (mean waiting time)
- Expected value (mean) = $k\theta$
- Variance = $k\theta^2$

If you get the math, good work. If you don't - this book isn't the place to learn it. 

All you need to **take away** is that this gamma distribution function is able to tell you the **exact probability** that it will be another *22 minutes, 33 seconds and 23832... milliseconds* until you see the *5th* plane fly past. 

Logically, since the exponential is the wait time till **one** event, the sum of n iid exponentials has a Gamma distribution. 

<br> 

---

###### Q4.2) **Poisson in disguise**

**Question**
Your service provides an API endpoint for users. On average, it receives 3 calls per minute. Calculate the probability that you have to wait more than 5 minutes for the 12th API call.

**Using Gamma**


**Using Poisson**

The *event* that you have to wait more than 5 minutes for the 12th call, is the same as the *event* that there are less than 12 calls in the 5 minute window - **logically**, they are saying the same thing\*.

Currently, the number of api calls in a **1 minute** window is $Poisson(\lambda = 3)$

So, the number of api calls in a **5 minute** window is $Poisson(\lamda = 3*5)$

`p1 <- 1-pgamma(5, shape=12, rate=3)`
`p2 <- ppois(11, 15)`

*\* **Think about it: ** If there are only 10 api calls in the first 5 minutes, then clearly we will have to 'wait more than 5 minutes' to see the 12th! If a total of 13 calls happen in the first 5 minutes, then the 12th call already happened in the first 5 minutes.* 

<br>