# Standalone 
###### How can we model a random variable that represents a proportion or a fraction of a quantity between 0 and 1?

**Beta distribution.**
$$X \sim Beta(\alpha, \beta)$$
$$f(x; \alpha, \beta) = \frac{x^{\alpha - 1}(1-x)^{\beta - 1}}{B(\alpha, \beta)}$$
$$f(x; \alpha, \beta) = \frac{\Gamma(\alpha + \beta)}{\Gamma(\alpha)\Gamma(\beta)}\cdot x^{\alpha - 1}(1-x)^{\beta - 1}$$

Where $x$ is in the interval [0,1], \( \alpha \) and \( \beta \) are shape parameters, and \( B(\alpha, \beta) \) is the Beta function, which is a normalization constant to ensure that the total probability is 1.

Simple Explanation:
The Beta distribution is a continuous probability distribution defined between 0 and 1. <---
It's often used to model the distribution of random variables that represent proportions or probabilities since its support is the interval [0,1]. The shape of the distribution is determined by two parameters, \( \alpha \) and \( \beta \). By tweaking these parameters, the Beta distribution can take a variety of shapes, from uniform to U-shaped, to bell-shaped, to skewed left or right.

Example in Machine Learning/Data Science:

Since the beta distribution has a domain from 0 to 1, it's perfect for modelling the distribution of things which also tend to range from \[0, 1\]. Can you think of any? (Bayesian prior distributions)

1. Probabilities
2. Proportions

This is a bit of an involved example, so hold on. 
Your senior manager *Ted* comes to your desk and asks you for your prediction of the **proportion** of customers who will click through on an a new ad. Instead of simply answering with a best guess like '27%' (**a point estimate**) you can specify a **distribution** which shows how likely you think each plausible proportion is. For example: let's say you think it would either be a strong 10% or 90% (because of SEO factors which push the ad to either end of the extreme), and is unlikely to be anywhere in between. 

You hand this back to *Ted* on a napkin\*: 

(diagram)

\*Ted is furious, because he is a frequentist, and you get fired. 

Warning: when you're estimating probabilities instead of proportions, this becomes **probability on top of probability** - *the probability of each probability being the true probability!*

This is related to **Bayesian Statistics** which, as you can see, involves making educated guesses on parameters (prior) and updating our beliefs in light of new data (posterior). 





In essence, the Beta distribution, in this context, provides a flexible way to model your beliefs about a proportion (the CTR) and update them in light of new data.


The beta distribution models a random variable that can take values between 0 and 1, representing proportions or percentages. Its parameters are:
- Shape parameters \( \alpha \) and \( \beta \)
- Expected value (mean) = \( \frac{\alpha}{\alpha + \beta} \)
- Variance = \( \frac{\alpha\beta}{(\alpha+\beta)^2(\alpha+\beta+1)} \)

Used in Bayesian statistics to model the prior. 





