---
title: (2.8) Git
draft: 
tags:
  - git
  - github
---
> [!quote]
> Git quote

---
##### Have you used Git before? 

<br> 


---

##### Are **Git** and **Github** the same thing? 

<br>

---

##### Explain what each of these lines does: 

```
echo "# dsx-quartz" >> README.md
git init
git add README.md
git commit -m "first commit"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin https://github.com/jl33-ai/dsx-quartz.git
git push -u origin main
```

<br>


---

##### How do you fork a **repository**? 

<br>

---

##### Are you familiar with various licenses? 

> [!check] MIT License (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) 
> - Short, simple and permissive (permission granted)
> - Allows anyone to do whatever with your project, including making and distributing **closed source versions**


> [!check] GPL License (General Public License)
> - Lets people do almost anything they want with your project, **except distributing closed source versions.**

> [!check] BSD License (Berkeley Software Distribution)
> - More permissive than GPL, allowing **propritary use**
> - Can be included within proprietary products without inheriting the license



<br>

---

##### What would be the most appropriate license for X

<br> 

---

  

Backing up your content

On branch v4

Your branch is ahead of 'origin/v4' by 3 commits.

  (use "git push" to publish your local commits)

  

nothing to commit, working tree clean

Pulling updates from your repository. You may need to resolve some `git` conflicts if you've made changes to components or plugins.

fatal: couldn't find remote ref v4

Pushing your changes

Username for 'https://github.com':


<br>

---

what does '`git push origin main`' mean explain each word

1. **`git`**:
   - This is the command line tool for working with Git, a distributed version control system. 
   - It's the main command that starts off any Git operation.

2. **`push`**:
   - This is a Git subcommand. The `push` command is used to upload local repository content to a remote repository. It transfers commits from your local repository to the remote repository.

from:
3. **`origin`**:
   - This specifies the name of the remote repository where you're pushing your changes. By default, when you clone a repository, Git automatically names this remote repository `origin`. This is essentially a shorthand or an alias for the URL of the remote repository.

to: 
4. **`main`**:
   - This is the name of the branch you are pushing to on the remote repository. In this case, `main` is likely the default branch of the repository. It's the branch where your final, stable code lives. In older repositories or in certain contexts, this branch might be called `master`.
