
1. Compare "Frequentist probability" vs. "Bayesian probability"?
2. What is a random variable?
3. What is a probability distribution?
4. What is a probability mass function?
5. What is a probability density function?
6. What is a joint probability distribution?
7. What are the conditions for a function to be a probability mass function?
8. What are the conditions for a function to be a probability density function?
9. What is a marginal probability? Given the joint probability function, how will you calculate it?
10. What is conditional probability? Given the joint probability function, how will you calculate it?
11. State the Chain rule of conditional probabilities.
12. What are the conditions for independence and conditional independence of two random variables?
13. What are expectation, variance and covariance?
14. Compare covariance and independence.
15. What is the covariance for a vector of random variables?
16. What is a Bernoulli distribution? Calculate the expectation and variance of a random variable that follows Bernoulli distribution?
17. What is a multinoulli distribution?
18. What is a normal distribution?
19. Why is the normal distribution a default choice for a prior over a set of real numbers?
20. What is the central limit theorem?
21. What are exponential and Laplace distribution?
22. What are Dirac distribution and Empirical distribution?
23. What is mixture of distributions?
24. Name two common examples of mixture of distributions? (Empirical and Gaussian Mixture)
25. Is Gaussian mixture model a universal approximator of densities?
26. Write the formulae for logistic and softplus function.
27. Write the formulae for Bayes rule.
28. What do you mean by measure zero and almost everywhere?
29. If two random variables are related in a deterministic way, how are the PDFs related?
30. Define self-information. What are its units?
31. What are Shannon entropy and differential entropy?
32. What is Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence?
33. Can KL divergence be used as a distance measure?
34. Define cross-entropy.
35. What are structured probabilistic models or graphical models?
36. In the context of structured probabilistic models, what are directed and undirected models? How are they represented? What are cliques in undirected structured probabilistic models?
> [!quote] author name
> Probably theory is the foundation of every aspect of quantitative finance

