https://www.interviewquery.com/p/trading-interview-probability-questions
the kindle book
https://jerryqin.com/posts/a-working-list-of-probability-problems

##### Two gamblers are playing a coin toss game. Gambler *A* has $(n+1)$ fair coins; *B* has $n$ fair coins. What is the probability that *A* will have more heads than *B* if both flip all their coins. 
 `Source: Xinfeng Zhou`




<br>

---

##### A casino offers a simple card game. There are 52 cards in a deck with 4 cards for each value $2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, \overset{\text{jack}}{J}, \overset{\text{queen}}{Q}, \overset{\text{king}}{K}, \overset{\text{ace}}{A}$ ... The cards are thoroughly shuffled, so that each card has an equal chance of being selected. You take a card from the deck first, and the dealer takes another without replacement. If you have a larger number you win; if the numbers are equal or yours is smaller, the house wins. Does the house have the better odds of winning? If so, what is your probability of winning?
 `Source: Xinfeng Zhou`

☞ The house has better odds of winning 

☞ Break it down into what happens for each scenario (each card picked first)

☞ For example, what is the probability of you winning if you select a $5$ 

☞ Now do this for each card  **(2, 3, ..., Ace)**

☞ And then simply multiply by your probability of choosing each card in the first place

<br>

---


##### ELO

> [!check] ELO ratings
> The core idea behind ELO is: 






##### A concept - if you repeat unough events which hav e asuper slim chance of happening, you wil see a few, in aggregate 



##### Random walks

##### Brownian motion (toms questions)
##### Amanda's the Hopeless Romantic

Let's say we have a friend Amanda 
u wished to vecome someone. now, if true
