###### `{1}` What do you like most about the C++ programming language? 

^07789a

- Object-Oriented Programming
- Low-level manipulation
- Standard template library
- Multiple inheritance
- Operator overloading 
- Memory management
- Function overloading
- Exception handling 

<br>

---

###### `{2}` Rewrite the expression `myNode->val` using `*` and `.`

This is equivalent to `(*myNode).val`

<br>

---

###### `{3}` What is a constructor in C++?

A constructor is a member function that is automatically called when an object of a class is created. 

For example, let's say you want to create a 'fruit' class


<br>

---

###### `{4} `What is the difference between a class and struct in `C++`?

They are functionally equivalent in `C++`, however: 

- **Struct**
	- In a **struct**, members are **public** by default. 
	- Used for plain data structures with public access, where the primary purpose is to hold data
- **Class**
	- In a **class**, members are **private** by default. 
	- Used for **objects** with more complex behaviour, encapsulating both functions and data

*Both have constructors, destructors, member functions and support inheritance and polymorphism.* 

---

###### `{5}` Class hierarchy for a zoo 
> Imagine you're designing software for a zoo to monitor and track different types of animals. Using `C++`, create a class hierarchy that represents various animals in the zoo. You should start with a base class '*Animal*'. The base class should have common attributes like 'name', 'age', 'weight', and a method to display these attributes. 

```python
class Animal {
protected:
    std::string name;
    int age;
    double weight;

public:
    Animal(std::string n, int a, double w) : name(n), age(a), weight(w) {}

    virtual void display() {
        std::cout << "Name: " << name << ", Age: " << age << ", Weight: " << weight << " kg" << std::endl;
    }
};
```

###### ⚘ Now, explain how you can use [[(2.1) Object Oriented Programming#^73eb37|polymorphism]] to derive a 'Fish' type

Since we have specified the base class `Animal` we can use polymorphism to extend our hierarchy. Let's derive a 'Fish' class from 'Animal'

```python
class Fish : public Animal { // inherit from Animal
	std::string waterType;   // std::string is a string in the standard namespace

public:
	Fish(std::string n, int a, double w, std::string wt) : Animal(n, a, w), waterType(wt) {}
	
	void swim() {
		std::cout << name << " is swimming!" << std::endl;
	}

	void display() override {
		std::cout << "Fish - ";
		Animal::display();
		std::cout << "Water Type: " << waterType <, std::endl;
	}
};
```

<br>

---

