Support Vector Machines 

---

##### What is a Support Vector Machine? 

A machine learning 

<br>

##### ↳ Are they a supervised or unsupervised machine learning model?

They are definitely supervised. The decision boundary is derived from the training data. 

<br>


##### ↳ Are they only useful for classification? 

No! They can also be used for regression (more on this later)

<br>

---

##### What type of data are SVM's well suited for classifying? 

**Support Vector Machines** are also good for classifying: 
☞ Data that a neural net would overfit
☞ High dimensional data
☞ Non-linear data, using [[(2.9.2) Support Vector Machines#What do you do if|Kernel Tricks]]

<br>

##### Why would you use an SVM when neural networks exist? 

- If low amounts of high dimensional data.
- If it's data with clear segments, that neural nets are likely to overfit. 
- SVM's are lightweight whereas neural networks are computationally expensive.
- SVMs are simpler to implement and tune compared to neural networks, which require careful tuning of numerous hyperparameters and long training times.

---

##### So when should you use MMC, SVC, and SVM's?  

☞ **[[(2.9.1) Support Vector Classifiers#What is a Maximal Margin Classifier?|MMC]]:** If the data has no outliers or noise, and is linearly separable.
☞ **[[(2.9.1) Support Vector Classifiers|SVC]]:** If the data is linearly separable.
☞ **[[(2.9.2) Support Vector Machines#^What is a Support Vector Machine|SVM]]:** If the data is not linearly separable.

<br>

---
