> [!quote] With C++ as my hammer, everything looked like a nail ~ *Lex Fridman*
> 

C++ is a compiler based, low level, object oriented programming language

But seriously, we've covered python for ML, we've covered algorithms, C++ will be used to cover the rest of computer science basics, due to being a more low level language (closer to machine code, but not quite as close as other languages)

Python tends to be more concise and higher-level, while C++ provides more control and efficiency, especially for system-level programming. 

We'll cover stuff like the heap vs the stack, pointers, memory management, typing.

it's good if you want to be that applicant who also really gets computer science + knows another languagfe, and is a bit more of a programmer than a scripter. 

Python was made for Machine Learning. 
But for ***programming***... we return to our true love: C++. 
Note: this is obviously just a personal preference. There are many low-level programming languages to choose from; C, C++, C#, Rust... 

- I mean `long long`? Sold. 

```
#6 0x7fc3c16c5082 (/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6+0x24082)
Shadow bytes around the buggy address:
0x0c047fff7fc0: 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
0x0c047fff7fd0: 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
0x0c047fff7fe0: 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
0x0c047fff7ff0: 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00
0x0c047fff8000: fa fa fd fa fa fa fd fa fa fa fd fa fa fa fd fa
=>0x0c047fff8010: fa fa 00 00[fa]fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa
0x0c047fff8020: fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa
0x0c047fff8030: fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa
0x0c047fff8040: fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa
0x0c047fff8050: fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa
0x0c047fff8060: fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa fa
Shadow byte legend (one shadow byte represents 8 application bytes):
Addressable: 00
Partially addressable: 01 02 03 
```

This will piggyback on C++ to test the basics of computer science; 
- bits, bytes
- what the compiler is 
- operating systems 101
- hexadecimal 
- pointers
- memory
- the stack and the heap



---
### Operators
- **Arithmetic Operators:** `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `%`
- **Relational Operators:** `==`, `!=`, `>`, `<`, `>=`, `<=`
- **Logical Operators:** `&&`, `||`, `!`
- **Bitwise Operators:** `&`, `|`, `^`, `~`, `<<`, `>>`
- **Assignment Operators:** `=`, `+=`, `-=`, `*=`, `/=`, `%=`, `<<=`, `>>=`, `&=`, `^=`, `|=`
- **Increment and Decrement:** `++`, `--`
- **Member Access and Dereference:** `.`, `->`, `*`, `&`
- **Others:** `sizeof`, `typeid`, `new`, `delete`, `throw`, `?:` (ternary operator)

### Special Characters and Punctuation
- **Braces and Brackets:** `{}`, `[]`, `()`, `<>`
- **Semicolon and Comma:** `;`, `,`
- **Scope Resolution:** `::`
- **Pointer/Reference:** `*`, `&`
- **Other Special Characters:** `#` (preprocessor), `\:`, `'`, `"`

### Keywords
- Control Flow: `if`, `else`, `switch`, `case`, `default`, `while`, `do`, `for`, `break`, `continue`, `goto`, `return`
- Access Specifiers: `public`, `protected`, `private`
- Data Types: `int`, `char`, `float`, `double`, `void`, `bool`, `short`, `long`, `signed`, `unsigned`
- Class/Struct/Union/Enum: `class`, `struct`, `union`, `enum`
- Modifiers: `const`, `static`, `extern`, `volatile`, `mutable`
- Error Handling: `try`, `catch`, `throw`
- Other Keywords: `namespace`, `using`, `template`, `this`, `virtual`, `inline`, `dynamic_cast`, `static_cast`, `reinterpret_cast`, `const_cast`, `friend`, `operator`, `typeid`, `new`, `delete`, `nullptr`

### Preprocessor Directives
- `#include`, `#define`, `#if`, `#ifdef`, `#ifndef`, `#else`, `#elif`, `#endif`, `#error`, `#pragma`

### Comments
- Single line: `//`
- Multi-line: `/* ... */`

---
##### What do you like most about the C++ programming language? 

^07789a

1. If it comes to time-critical systems where every millisecond counts. Use C++. 
2. If performance matters, use C++

3. **Performance and Efficiency**: C++ is known for its high performance and efficient use of resources, making it an excellent choice for applications where speed and memory management are critical, such as game development, real-time systems, and high-performance computing.
    
2. **Low-Level Manipulation**: C++ provides features that allow programmers to manipulate hardware resources directly. This includes direct memory management and the use of pointers, which can lead to highly efficient and optimized code.
    
3. **Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)**: C++ supports OOP, which helps in organizing complex programs through classes and objects. This makes the code more modular, reusable, and scalable.
    
4. **Standard Template Library (STL)**: The STL is a powerful feature of C++ that provides ready-to-use, efficient implementations of common data structures and algorithms.
    
5. **Compatibility with C**: C++ is almost fully compatible with C, allowing for code written in C to be used in C++ applications. This is particularly useful for integrating legacy code or for situations where certain parts of a project require low-level C-style programming.
    
6. **Wide Range of Application**: C++ is used in a variety of fields, from embedded systems and operating systems to large-scale applications and high-performance server/client applications.
    
7. **Control Over System Resources**: C++ provides a high degree of control over system resources, which is crucial for systems where hardware efficiency is essential.
    
8. **Multi-paradigm Language**: Besides supporting object-oriented programming, C++ also supports procedural, generic, and functional programming styles, making it a versatile choice for various types of applications.
    
9. **Large Community and Resource Availability**: Being one of the older programming languages, C++ has a large community of developers. There are many resources available for learning and troubleshooting, as well as a vast number of libraries and tools.
    
10. **Continuous Evolution**: The C++ language is continuously evolving with regular updates to the standard. These updates aim to make the language more user-friendly, secure, and efficient while maintaining backward compatibility.



- Object-Oriented Programming
- Low-level manipulation
- Standard template library
- Multiple inheritance
- Operator overloading 
- Memory management
- Function overloading
- Exception handling 

<br>

---

##### What is a member in C++? 

> [!check] Member
> Members are the attributes (variables) and methods (functions) of a class. 

<br>

---
##### What are the three main access specifiers in C++?

> [!check] **Public**
> Attributes or methods declared as '`public`' are accessible from outside the class. 
> They can be accessed or modified. 

> [!check] **Private**
> Attributes or methods declared as '`private`' are only accessible within the class itself. 
> They cannot be accessed or modified directly from outside the class, which is crucial for encapsulation, allowing the class to control the integrity of its internal state.

> [!check] **Protected**
> Attributes or methods declared as '`protected`' are similar to private, but they can also be accessed in derived classes. 
> This means that while they are not accessible directly from outside the class or unrelated functions, subclasses that inherit from the class have access to them. This specifier is often used in inheritance to ensure a level of protection while still allowing functionality in child classes.

<br>

---

###### Rewrite the expression `myNode->val` using `*` and `.`

This is equivalent to `(*myNode).val`

<br>

---

##### What is a constructor in C++?

A constructor is a member function that is automatically called when an object of a class is created. 

For example, let's say you want to create a 'fruit' class


<br>

---

##### What does this output? 

```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main () {
	int pi; 
	std::cout << pi; 
}
```

The output of this program is unpredictable, since the variable `pi` has been declared but not initialized with a value yet. 

One potential output: 
```cpp
>>> 334201973
```

It could print any arbitrary integer value, or it could potentially cause a runtime error, depending on what is currently in the areas of memory where `pi` is allocated.

<br>

##### ↳ How are integers stored in computer memory? 

Integers in computer memory are represented using a binary number system, where bits are either `0` or `1`. 

<br>

##### ↳ How many different values can 8 bits represent? 

$2^8 = 256$

<br>

##### ↳ What is the largest number that can be represented by 8 bits? 

**Unsigned Integers:** `256` (see above)

**Signed Integers**: `127`

☞ Signed integers can go from: `[-128, 127]` with 8 bits. 
☞ In this case, one bit is used to represent the **sign** (`positive/negative`)

> [!check] Two's complement representation (for signed integers)
> ☞ Represent the number as you would in normal binary
> ☞ For **negative** numbers only, first flip each bit, so that `0` becomes `1`
> ☞ Then add 1 to the number, e.g `10000000 -> 10000001`
> ☞ Given that you followed the steps, the first bit will be `0` if the number is positive, and `1` if negative


<br>

##### ↳ Explain how to convert the binary number `101011` into a decimal (normal base 10) number. 

**Going from left to right:**

$1 \times 2^0$
$1 \times 2^1$
$0 \times 2^2$
$1 \times 2^3$
$0 \times 2^4$
$1 \times 2^5$


<br>

---

##### Translate `0x7fc3c16c5082` into hexadecimal

1. Break into digits
   - `7, f, c, 3, c, 1, 6, c, 5, 0, 8, 2`

2. Convert each hexadecimal digit to its decimal equivalent:
   - `7, 15, 12, 3, 12, 1, 6, 12, 5, 0, 8, 2`
   (Note: In hexadecimal, 'a'=10, 'b'=11, 'c'=12, 'd'=13, 'e'=14, 'f'=15)

3. Multiply each decimal digit by `16` raised to the power of its position index, starting from the right (position 0):
   - $7 \times 16^{11}$
   - $15 \times 16^{10}$
   - $12 \times 16^9$
   - $3 \times 16^8$
   - $12 \times 16^7$
   - $1 \times 16^6$
   - $6 \times 16^5$
   - $12 \times 16^4$
   - $5 \times 16^3$
   - $0 \times 16^2$
   - $8 \times 16^1$
   - $2 \times 16^0$

4. Add up all these values to get the final decimal number.

$7 \times 16^{11} + 15 \times 16^{10} + 12 \times 16^9 + 3 \times 16^8 + \dots + 8 \times 16^1 + 2 \times 16^0$

<br>

##### How many bits are in a byte? 

> [!check] Byte
> A bit is the smallest unit of computing. One **byte** is made up of 8 bits. 

<br>


---

##### What is the difference between a class and struct in `C++`?

They are functionally equivalent in `C++`, however: 

- **Struct**
	- In a **struct**, members are **public** by default. 
	- Primary purpose is to hold data
- **Class**
	- In a **class**, members are **private** by default. 
	- Used for **objects** with more complex behaviour, encapsulating both functions and data

*Both have constructors, destructors, member functions and support inheritance and polymorphism.* 

---

##### Class hierarchy for a zoo 
> Imagine you're designing software for a zoo to monitor and track different types of animals. Using `C++`, create a class hierarchy that represents various animals in the zoo. You should start with a base class '*Animal*'. The base class should have common attributes like 'name', 'age', 'weight', and a method to display these attributes. 

```python
class Animal {
protected:
    std::string name;
    int age;
    double weight;

public:
    Animal(std::string n, int a, double w) : name(n), age(a), weight(w) {}

    virtual void display() {
        std::cout << "Name: " << name << ", Age: " << age << ", Weight: " << weight << " kg" << std::endl;
    }
};
```

###### ⚘ Now, explain how you can use [[2.2 Object Oriented Programming#^73eb37|polymorphism]] to derive a 'Fish' type

Since we have specified the base class `Animal` we can use polymorphism to extend our hierarchy. Let's derive a 'Fish' class from 'Animal'

```python
class Fish : public Animal { // inherit from Animal
	std::string waterType;   // std::string is a string in the standard namespace

public:
	Fish(std::string n, int a, double w, std::string wt) : Animal(n, a, w), waterType(wt) {}
	
	void swim() {
		std::cout << name << " is swimming!" << std::endl;
	}

	void display() override {
		std::cout << "Fish - ";
		Animal::display();
		std::cout << "Water Type: " << waterType <, std::endl;
	}
};
```

<br>

---

##### Stack vs the Heap



---

| Python | C++ |
| ------ | --- |
| `len(s)` for length of strings, lists, etc. | `s.length()` for strings; `s.size()` for STL containers like `std::vector`, `std::string`; for arrays, `sizeof(arr)/sizeof(arr[0])` |
| `for item in iterable:` (for each loop) | `for (auto& item : iterable) { }` (range-based for loop in C++11) |
| `for i in range(len(iterable)):` | `for (size_t i = 0; i < iterable.size(); ++i) { }` |
| `while condition:` | `while (condition) { }` |
| `if condition:` | `if (condition) { }` |
| `elif` | `else if` |
| `def func():` (function definition) | `void func() { }` (function definition) |
| `class MyClass:` | `class MyClass { };` |
| `# Comment` | `// Comment` or `/* Comment */` |
| `import module` | `#include <header>` |
| `None` (null value) | `nullptr` (C++11), `NULL` (older C++) |
| `dict` for dictionaries | `std::map` or `std::unordered_map` |
| `list` for lists | `std::vector` |
| `set` for sets | `std::set` |
| `str` for strings | `std::string` |
| Exceptions with `try`, `except` | Exceptions with `try`, `catch` |
| `with open('file') as f:` for file operations | `std::fstream` or `std::ifstream`/`std::ofstream` |
| List comprehensions | No direct equivalent; closest is using algorithms with functors or lambdas |
| Generators (`yield`) | No direct equivalent; closest are functions returning `std::next` or custom iterator classes |
| Dynamic typing | Static typing |
| Garbage collection | Manual memory management or RAII with smart pointers (`std::shared_ptr`, `std::unique_ptr`) |
| Global interpreter lock | Multi-threading with `std::thread` and no global interpreter lock |
| Indentation defines scope | Braces `{ }` define scope |

<br>

---

##### What is the difference between runtime and compile time? 

> [!check] Compile time
> Compile-time is the step when source code is translated from C++/C into a new file, written in machine code, by a compiler. 

> [!check] Runtime
> When you actually execute the program on a computer. This is when the code you have written actually 'happens', as opposed to just being translated. 

<br>

---

##### What is homebrew? 

> [!check] Homebrew
> Homebrew is an open-source package management system for macOS and Linux that simplifies the installation, update, and management of software from the command line. It allows users to easily install thousands of programs and tools that are not included in the default operating system installation.

<br> 

---
